Azure.
Welcome to the library studio here of the
Yahowah blog.
We're delighted to be able to give a
recap of the last word picture.
By way of background,
the hero of our story was a bad
boy.
His name is Dowd.
He was the king of Yisra'el.
He happens to be the son of God
and the Messiah.
And after living
from eight to fifty-six years old,
so forty-eight years of exemplary life,
where his lyrics were sublime,
his life was extraordinary,
where he was courageous and intelligent
and articulate.
He just was kind of the ultimate example
of how we should live our lives.
Extraordinary, extraordinary man.
He lost his way.
And he started drinking too much,
lounging around during the day,
sending his troops off to war rather than
leading them.
And then when at the end of a
day of doing nothing,
he got up from his bed in the
early evening and went up to the roof
to be a voyeur.
and saw pretty pretty,
decided that he needed to have her,
took her, had sex with her.
And she was either previously pregnant or
became pregnant.
And that started a whole cavalcade of
horrible events that led to Dowd plotting
the death of a very good man whose
name means the light of Yah.
And his letters,
conniving the means that he would use to
obfuscate himself from guilt and kill not
one but many men.
It's as tragic as anything I've ever read.
And I'm grateful that I came to know
and love Dowd based upon his lyrics and
his life,
the forty-eight glorious years that he
lived prior to this,
before dealing with it.
And I'm grateful that we reviewed this
solution, God's intervention,
sending the Em, mother.
who is elsewhere called the Amah,
the most productive mother,
but who in this Mizmowr is called the
greatest of all women.
And the Asherah,
the woman who offers a tremendous blessing
and benefit.
And she and her husband were able to
resolve this such that...
Nod resolved his relationship with God and
could go on to fulfill his second of
three lives where he fulfilled Pesach,
Matsah, and Bikuwrym.
So it is quite a story and was
a lot at stake.
Now, as we...
went through the final word picture,
this ultimate Mashal or proverb.
One of the things that we did is
we considered other passages that served
as a way of introducing this.
And I'm going to go through them in
the order that they were actually brought
to us through the Towrah and prophets
before we get to the Mashal itself.
And the first one begins,
as uh as follows it says so Yahowah
almighty caused the fall of man I'm going
to share this with you because it's
important for you to know that David
became this man he became lethargic uh he
uh
was, well, he lost his way.
And so the man that had resolved this
by being so aggressively assertive and
contributory to God's plan became this
very man.
So I'm gonna share this with you.
And it reads, so Yahowah Almighty,
He caused the fall of man for being
somewhat lethargic due to a lack of work
and diligence.
He slept inert and inactive,
unmotivated and sedentary.
And so he grasped hold of one of
his ribs from his side,
that part of him that was limp and
lame.
And he sutured up and isolated the place
beneath it,
replacing it over time with a Basar
Herald.
Yahowah as God,
he constructed building a family on behalf
of the son,
offering a woman through the rib.
removing what was limp and lame,
which he had taken from the man,
and he brought her with unfolding
implications over time.
To the man, Bare'syth, two twenty-two.
Then the man said,
this is the way to conduct one's life,
the pattern of behavior to be followed,
and the motivation to push forward.
It is the essential nature and substance
of an upright life.
Out of my essence and humanity,
a living person is able to communicate
intelligently.
An individual with whom to talk in the
flesh for my desire to share positive
thoughts as a herald while human.
For this reason,
she shall be welcomed and called,
designated and known as the woman.
Because indeed, for man,
She was selected and obtained.
Therefore, a man, this individual male,
he shall leave rejecting and forsaking for
having been absent from and abandoned by
his father and his mother.
And then he will engage becoming close by
becoming joined together with this woman
and they shall exist and become a unified
declaration regarding heralding the
pronouncements of life.
The two, this man and his woman,
they were completely exposed without
barriers between them and they were no
longer wrong, disapproved or mistaken.
Bare'syth Genesis two,
twenty four and twenty five.
The reason that I shared that excerpt
previously and again.
Is that Adam and child didn't have a
mother and father.
This wasn't being told for them, but Dowd,
he had one.
And both mother and father abandoned him.
They were played no productive role in his
life.
And so Dowd had to leave his mother
and father for him to find his way.
And they had,
therefore I look at these statements as
all prophetic of this event in Dowd's life
that became the very fulcrum upon which
life and death would hinge for this
planet.
Then we read how Leah,
the namesake of my wife,
would announce that she is the Ashar.
This reads,
and Leah literally said with unfolding
implications, then Ashar,
blessed and beneficial am I.
This is because a time will come when
daughters and women will be guided to an
upright life by me,
and women will be encouraged and blessed,
benefiting and happy because of me.
So she proclaimed that which pertained to
his name as Asher.
The woman in the word picture is named
Asher.
And her name, of course, is Leah.
She is a benefit and blessing to all
women.
Then we move to Dabarym, Deuteronomy,
it reads,
for the benefit of the relationship,
they will be better off and more
successful based upon what they have said.
This was following a declaration by the
children of Israel that they never wanted
to see Yahowah again.
and they didn't want to hear directly from
him.
And so God says, okay, I understand,
that's better for you.
And I share this because the intervention
that saved Dowd from himself and reunited
father and son so that Dowd could be
trusted to fulfill Pesach,
Matsah and Bikuwrym in his second of three
lives was a woman.
Yes,
a woman saved the man who saved the
world.
And it is God's commitment to work through
people.
And he has throughout time and he will
continue to do so.
So we should be cognizant of this
expression from Yahowah.
I also wanted to share how...
Ruth made a very important declaration to
her future husband, Bo'az,
and how he represents one of the two
pillars
There are two men whose lives are
intertwined,
standing upright side by side,
twelve cubits apart.
Cubit is the same word as Amah.
And it is Ruth that will announce that
she is the Amah,
the most productive of mothers.
Dowd will announce that it was Yahowah's
Amah that saved him from himself.
And so these two people, Bo'az,
the husband of Ruth,
And Dowd,
represented by these two columns,
were forever joined.
The text reads,
and he established erecting by standing
upright that which pertains to the Amuwdym,
the support pillars,
the unifying juxtaposition of that which
is set side by side,
standing and grounded,
remaining and enduring together.
for the Alam, the portico,
to make this permanent bond on the porch
of the Hykel,
the temple and royal residence.
When he established and stood them
upright, that which pertains to the Amuwd,
this unifying juxtaposition of the support
pillar, on the right-hand side or south,
He was called and proclaimed,
read aloud and summoned for the Miqra'ey by
that which is associated with his name,
his reputation and renown, Yakym,
one with the ability to overcome,
to ultimately succeed and endure.
And yes, as a result of this intervention,
God would do that very thing.
Then he established by standing upright to
that which pertains to the amuwd,
the support pillar by his side to endure
standing together on the left hand side or
north,
properly clothed and adorned in a covering
garment.
So he was called and proclaimed,
read aloud and summoned for the Miqra'ey by
that which is associated with his name,
his reputation and renown, Bo'az,
the powerful one with prevailing strength.
the one with the strength to get the
job done.
Melekym, one king, seven, twenty-one.
This is then how Ruth answered Leah when
God sent her to this remarkable woman.
He who would be Bo'az, her future husband,
asked, with ongoing implications,
who are you?
Same question that Leah would ask of me.
Same question that she asked of her son,
Dowd.
Who are you?
She answered, I am Ruth,
longing to strive to shepherd the flock.
Your Amah, protective mother.
So spread out and stretch out the hem
of your garment as wings over your Amah,
maternal coworker.
who is branded and marked to deliver,
the ga'al,
the kinsman redeemer saving you.
And she did, as Leah, as the Amah,
this maternal coworker of Yahowah on behalf
of her adopted son.
And at her side was her husband, Bo'az,
the one with the strength to prevail.
This then is in Dowd's voice.
It is at a time after our intervention
when he wants to thank Yahowah for what
he did for him during this final word
picture.
Speaking to God,
his son now reclaiming his status says,
you won it.
to turn back to me,
having chosen to appear before me face to
face.
Your desire is to be merciful and kind
to me because you have decided to favor
me, to be generous to me.
You want to give me what I've emphatically
requested, your power,
your strength and fortification on behalf
of your EBED coworker.
You and I want to liberate the sun
Saving through the Son by delivering your
Amah.
Yahowah's Amah, motherly coworker.
That is how the Son who saved us
was saved.
We have God's word on it.
You have decided to act engaging with me
such that you working with me serves to
provide for me a genuinely good life.
resolutely moral,
an overtly positive sign,
a miraculous symbol of femininity whose
attitude and aptitude are especially
productive and beneficial.
Then those who have shunned and abhorred
me, those who dislike and slight me,
may choose to see and understand and be
ashamed and even humiliated for that
decision because you, Yahowah,
supported me.
helping and assisting me.
And you consoled me,
relenting regarding me,
reconsidering your disposition toward me.
These last two statements were from the
Eighty-Sixth Mizmowr,
the Sixteenth and Seventeenth Statements.
Moving now to the Hundred and Sixteenth.
Oh, yeah, indeed, it's true.
I am your coworker.
I am your servant,
the son of your Amah,
productive mother and coworker.
You have responded to open and release
that which pertains to my bonds,
freeing me from my punishment through
disciplined instruction.
Pretty amazing how explicit God is
and revealing what the world has missed
heretofore.
Now,
just affirming something that I had long
perceived as true.
The Choter that Dowd introduces in the
fourteenth Mashal isn't actually coming
from the stem of
Yshay.
He's here to replace Yshay.
A choter stem will be extended out of
the stump,
which has been cut down so that it
is capable of supporting new growth.
Of Yshay, to stand out and be noticed,
drawing attention to the substance of
existence as a Netser,
an observant branch,
by means of its roots and that which
keeps it anchored,
steadfast and nourished,
such that he will continually bear an
abundance of fruit,
being productive as a bull while
encouraging productivity in others.
So with these insights,
that was Isaiah eleven one,
we're going to go through this recap of
the final word picture.
It reads the Dabarym,
the words of Lamow 'El Melek,
the sovereign counselor and king,
inseparable from God.
This is a profoundly poignant prophetic
pronouncement, a heavy burden to be borne,
while paying tribute to someone
tremendously uplifting with strong,
heartfelt yearnings,
revealed in a prophecy pertaining to the
past as well as to the future.
That is a benefit of the relationship and
to reveal the way.
Asher.
This Em, his mother,
taught this to him for the express purpose
of correcting him.
Mashal Proverbs, thirty-one-one.
Who and when is the question?
My radiant and bright chosen son,
Ponder how and why my favorite child and
thoughtful boy conceived within my place
of origin.
Consider what and where my chosen son
whose brilliance is reflected in the
moonlight and for whom I selected for this
relationship via my vow and binding
promise.
Do not ever offer or give your
authorization, your qualifications,
your competency to women or your journey
through life to someone who conceals the
truth and destroys those with the
authorization to lead.
It is not for those authorized to govern,
Lamuw'el, one inseparable from God.
No, it's not for kings,
for counselors and leaders to be drunk
with wine or for those who govern in
a significant or judicious capacity to
crave intoxicating libations.
Otherwise,
perhaps he would continually get drunk and
forget,
even overlook and ignore that which has
been written as inscribed prescriptions.
and change,
creating a different variation each year
of the means to determine and distinguish
between right and wrong,
exercising good judgment regarding all of
the children of the afflicted and
suffering,
the harassed and even the persecuted.
So you can offer, should you want,
Intoxicating beverages to the one who is
already lost and dying,
having squandered their life away.
And wine to the embittered and
disagreeable soul.
He can habitually drink to the point of
constant intoxication and forget his
impoverished state of incapacitation as a
result of his meekness and ignorance.
And then...
His unpleasant and distressful situation
and resulting misadventures will no longer
be known or remembered.
Open your mouth,
speak boldly for those without a voice
concerning the defense and the cause of
every child who was destitute and
abandoned.
Open your mouth, communicating profusely,
when choosing to lead and litigate,
making sound decisions correctly,
honestly and justly,
thereby electing to exercise good
judgment,
governing and defending the responsive as
well as the willing.
How is he to find,
to obtain and experience
a strong and capable woman of noble
character who is as enriching as she is
virtuous, far more valuable than rubies,
corals, or even jewels.
Can he confide in her?
Will he confidently trust her,
relying on her during missteps and still
feel safe?
Whoa, what a...
an insightful statement.
Dowd had chosen women because they were
either politically positioned to enhance
his status or they were pretty pretty.
And he simply coveted them for the way
they looked.
And here, this adoptive mother,
the one who would save him from himself,
I said, you know,
there's something vastly more valuable
than that, son.
Finding a woman that you can confide in.
Someone you can genuinely trust.
Someone you can rely upon,
even during missteps and still feel safe.
One of the beautiful insights here is not
only the depth of character that would
allow that and the budding of trust that
causes this to happen and the great joy
of being able to rely on someone in
this regard is that Yahowah,
rather than trying to avoid us having a
misstep, wants us to stumble and fall.
He doesn't want us to be perfect.
He wants us to make mistakes.
He wants us to fail.
Why?
Because it is only through failure that we
can demonstrate that we have what's in,
that which needs to be in us to
have the character to succeed,
to show that we can succeed.
It is only through obstacles that we can
show that we know how to overcome them.
It is by falling that we prove that
we can get back up.
It is by making a mistake that we
show we're capable of learning.
So this is really quite brilliant.
It's one of the more recent deductions we
have made in restudying the events of the
garden.
That there wasn't an initial sin.
That Eve, who was actually Chawah,
didn't cause the problem.
that Yahowah foreclosed on the garden
experience because he wanted man to fall
so that we could demonstrate the capacity
to get back up,
so that we can prove that we could
be trusted.
That's the point she's making here,
but she's also saying,
wouldn't it be great if when you stumble
and fall, when you make a mistake,
that you could have a strong woman there
that you could confide in,
just as she was providing this counsel for
her son?
So in the judgment and desire,
the mind and heart,
even the thoughts and emotions of her
husband, her ba'al, Lord and master,
he never lacks for anything.
He never ceases to prosper.
He never stops benefiting.
And he is never deprived,
such that he is not without what he
needs to prevail,
particularly regarding the things deemed
most valuable.
That's Mashal, thirty-one eleven.
This is brilliant counsel.
Not only is it the great gift that
a loving couple can bring to one another
to be able to rely on each other
and to help each other when we stumble
and fall,
because it is how we help one another
develop the ability
to get back up.
It's how we instill a passion to succeed.
It's how a burden is halved,
a joy is doubled.
And so she goes on to say that
in the fullness of one's lab,
which would be the mind and heart,
the judgment and desire,
the thoughts and emotions,
of her husband,
a woman who fills this role for her
husband,
assures that he never lacks for anything.
He never ceases to prosper.
If you are buttressed by a brilliant and
reliable,
trustworthy woman who has your best
interests at heart, you will prosper.
You will never stop benefiting.
You'll never be deprived.
You'll not ever go without what you need
to prevail.
And that is particularly true when dealing
with the most valuable things in life.
This remarkable Em said that a reliable
wife whose mindset is to provide these
marvelous gifts
She acts in a way that yields to
and serves him so as to treat him
properly, beautifully, and productively.
And he is never, she is,
I should say, never harmful, troubling,
disagreeable,
or hindersome all the days of her life.
For those that think that a woman being
submissive
to her husband in this way is somehow
out of step with modern sensibilities.
May I remind you of what Yahowah said
just a moment ago,
and excuse me one second.
My dog was biting herself again.
that Yahowah,
in a Mizmowr that Dowd had written,
it was actually Dowd who said,
I want to thank you, Yahowah,
for supporting me,
for giving me everything that I needed.
Yahowah puts himself in this same position
relative to us.
His goal is to offer us what we
need to succeed.
Now,
I don't think you would ever say that
Yahowah is subservient to man, would you?
And yet that's the mindset that God has
towards our relationship when we become
part of his family.
It's what parents do for their children.
It's what spouses do for one another.
And that is what is being conveyed here.
That sometimes the best way to accomplish
something worthwhile is to offer to
support somebody who is engaged in doing
something worthwhile.
And that is what this Em is recommending
for her son.
Don't choose somebody who's conniving,
who's trying to milk you for all you
have to give.
Instead,
rather than someone who's trying to take
from you,
why don't you turn to someone who's trying
to contribute to you?
Then you never have to worry about that
person being disagreeable or hindersome,
ever.
You never have to worry about what they're
doing behind your back,
because they have your back.
She cares and is concerned regarding
seeking to learn about wool and flax.
She continually engages and performs with
her pleasing and delightful hands.
Well,
the first reference as I shared earlier,
wool is what Dowd would have worn when
he was crucified on Passover as the lamb.
And flax is what he will wear
As linen,
when he returns and fulfills the role of
the high priest on Yowm Kipurym,
anointing the mercy seat of the Ark of
the Covenant.
She is saying, therefore,
it's important that you learn who you are.
You, sir, are the Passover lamb.
You are the king who will anoint the
mercy seat when he returns on Yowm Kipurym .
Amen.
And then she says, you know,
it's not just about outward appearances.
It's also about how a woman makes you
feel.
And she can not only adorn you for
success so that you dress for success.
She can touch you in ways that cause
you to know that you are genuinely loved.
She went on to say,
she exists like a fleet of yacht ships,
a merchant who travels about throughout
distant places.
She harvests and then arrives bringing her
loaves of bread, but also her battles.
My wife and I came here on, well,
it was at the time was the largest
boat and privately owned boat here in the
Virgin Islands.
And we have brought so much to the
world as merchants.
My wife is a fashion designer,
myself as a merchant trader.
And we have traveled in different places.
The more we have traveled,
between the two of us,
over two hundred countries.
The more we have learned,
the greater perspective we have on Israel,
on ourselves, on you.
on our king,
the better advice we can give.
And we are absolutely involved in the
harvest, Shabuwah and Taruwah,
recognizing that the two loaves of bread
are symbolic of Shabuwah,
and that to serve in this capacity,
one must fight many battles,
as Dowd would do.
She consistently rises and gets up while
it is yet night.
And she provides offering that which is
freshly picked and nourishing for her
family.
And as a share properly throughout and
appointed for her girls,
her female attendants and young ladies,
thirty-one fifteen.
She's giving the whole rundown here.
Dowd like myself, this mother's husband
an early riser he'd love to get up
before the sun as do I Leah my
wife this Em mother uh is a night
owl while we're sleeping they're working
and what it's basically saying is you know
We're going to be synergenic, synergistic.
Most of the day we will be together,
but I will do my best work when
it's just me and I have this time
to focus on what needs to be done
for us.
And then you get up early in the
morning and we'll meet thereafter and
we'll talk about what I contributed for
you during the night.
Not interested and...
so much in being served as they are
being productive.
A productive mother wants to freshly pick
nourishing food for her family.
She's not hedonistic.
She's not self-indulgent.
She's not trying to live off the fat
of the land.
She wants to make a contribution.
She wants to make certain that her
children are properly nourished.
And in this case,
my beloved wife,
and this becomes obvious that this woman,
this mother of Dowd is my wife.
She is also desirous of screening and
helping and apportioning and properly
preparing all of the other female
attendants and young ladies that will be
involved in Dowd's life.
She says,
I'll take care of that for you.
You've done a really poor job of picking
companions.
So I'll screen them for you.
I'll curate them for you.
I'll prepare them for you such that you
will lack for nothing.
Everything you could ever want.
She has considerations and plans for the
land and she's acquires it out of the
fruit of her hands.
She plants with the help of her man
firmly in trenches of vineyard and
orchard.
The purpose of this mother and father,
of this wife and her husband,
of the Amah and her bail is to
be productive.
It's the thing that would seem so simple,
but in the six thousand years,
including the time in the garden and all
the way back up to it.
Turns out.
There were only two people.
That saw through.
That finished the mission.
That managed to plant that.
garden and trenched themselves within it
and harvest the fruit all the way from
planting it to harvesting it to, you know,
the garden experience was cut short
because, uh, Adam didn't measure up.
Uh, Moshe, he, uh,
gave up within a year of the time
he had been appointed asking God to kill
him.
Um,
They made a deal and he got them
to the promised land, but not him.
Dowd had forty eight magnificent years,
but then major crash and burn.
Now he would come back in a second
of third lives and do something
extraordinary.
Fulfilling Passover and Matsah.
But heretofore, no one had
managed to see the job to the finish
line,
to plant the vineyard and to harvest its
fruit.
Now,
I have shared this before and it bears
reminding.
For many of you,
and I understand the difficulty of this,
You don't understand how a man and woman
who are alive today,
who share roles on the Yahowah vlog talk
to you frequently.
The man who wrote this translation and his
wife that asked him to do so could
have spoken to another.
Three thousand years ago.
You don't know how that's possible.
And you don't have any idea how.
Yahowah could take a person like Chanowk,
known as Enoch,
and have him perform a particular role
where he walked with God and then to
remove him so that he could insert him
again.
The name says it all.
It means that Chanowk means he was trained.
He was prepared.
He was devoted and he was deployed.
And that was just the first of many
times.
God is not sending someone back in time
that would rip the fabric of the universe
apart, alter cause and effect.
No,
he's inserting certain souls along the
timeline in time to accomplish what he
needs done.
It is essential at times for God to
intervene.
For example,
when Moshe was born in Mitsraym,
it was during a time where boys were
murdered.
And yet God needed Moshe not only to
survive,
he needed Moshe to grow up in an
environment where he was exposed to and
then could reject politics and religion,
the caste economic system.
And that's exactly what happened because
an Amah,
was dispatched and intervened to cause
that to happen.
That's the way God inserts these two souls
and brings them back out.
When Dowd was so hideously wrong in
everything associated with Bathsheba,
Yahowah reinserted this Amah as his
adoptive mother to
speak openly and honestly with him to get
his attention, which she did.
And I think she awakened him and then
softened him up to the point that it
would be the one-two punch because there's
a lot of mention here and elsewhere of
her husband, who is no nonsense.
And Dowd needed to be reacquainted with
who he is,
why it was not appropriate for him to
have done the things he did.
And so God got him back
I firmly established in his relationship
with him so that he could fulfill Pesach,
Matsah, and Bikuwrym and save the world.
So this is all part of that process.
It says here,
she drapes and wraps apparel,
dressing and girding her slender waist,
loins, and body confidently and boldly.
in an empowering and capable fashion.
She is determined and persistent,
always courageous in establishing and
enabling the strength and the status and
the very success of her Zarowa'.
The strong arm cultivating a productive
harvest, that's her husband,
and also the sacrificial lamb,
that would be her son.
Thank you.
Yahowah,
that this was revealed long after we came
to know the identity of the Zarowa so
that we could appreciate what was being
said here.
And there were two of them.
Typically, there's only one.
But this Em, this mother,
would be husband to the final Zarowa,
the strong arm cultivating a productive
harvest, Shabuwah and Taruwah,
and the adoptive mother of the ultimate
Zarowa, the sacrificial lamb of Passover.
Now what this woman is saying to her
adoptive son is that a beautiful woman can
also be strong.
A strong woman can also be beautiful.
Oz is the term that is used here.
It's the same word as we find in
Bo'az, which means with strength.
And so she was beautifully attired and is
beautifully attired.
She is beautiful.
an attractive woman,
keeps her body in beautiful shape.
She's pleasing inside and out.
You don't have to give up one for
the other, is what she's saying.
But while adorning a beautiful woman and
girding her for the festival feast,
this is sachar, which speaks of the feast.
This would be chag Matsah and chag Sukah.
that it's one thing and that's something
she's committed to doing,
to dressing and girding all of her family
for the feasts.
And that she will be as beautiful
outwardly as she is powerful and capable
inwardly.
And this combination is what makes it
possible for her to
strengthen and enable these marvelous
Zarowa as an expression of outward
physical strength to endure the sacrifices
of Pesach and Taruwah,
but also that inward strength to be
willing to make this sacrifice for others.
And she is saying that the right woman
will support her Zarowa,
even in the most difficult of all
circumstances.
And nothing could be more difficult than
what those two men will endure,
one on Passover,
the other on the day of the Herald.
She goes on, that was a sobering moment,
but she says,
Her exquisite taste,
her discretion and experience,
her good judgment,
affirm that indeed what she produces is
resolutely good.
It's pleasing, it's beautiful,
has a lovely appearance and performs well.
It's of excellent quality and is enjoyable
and desirable while also feeling
comfortable
and looking attractive.
Her lamp,
her illumination and flame is never
quenched or extinguished during the dark
hours of the night.
You need, particularly kings,
need a woman at their side who has
exquisite taste,
but who also knows something
about discretion,
who can exercise good judgment.
Someone who is pleasing, beautiful,
who performs well,
is an excellent contributor.
And she's just saying that that kind of
light and enlightenment, that flame that,
let's say near,
that is given off by such a beautiful
woman,
can never be quenched,
can never be extinguished.
Why?
Because Yahowah is going to transform His
covenant family from physical beings into
light.
And when we are transformed into light,
we are eternal.
Nothing can quench the resulting
brilliance.
She reaches out her hands expertly to the
spindle and skillfully to the staff to
please.
And the palms of her hands seize and
grasp hold of the round staff and stick.
Yes,
there's doubly entendres through this.
But, you know,
she's talking to a man who was overly
fixated on sensual pleasure.
And as a result of that, we...
Another reminder,
just a distraction so that my beloved
Labrador doesn't tear her pearls apart.
She just finds that when we do these
shows,
she thinks that we're going to ignore her
and she can just eat herself into
oblivion.
And of course she would harm herself
tremendously.
So these are double entendres.
These are sensual statements that she has
expressed
shared in a way that will not be
offensive to children.
They'll never understand them and yet
understood by adults.
And yet they're couched in the same role
that she is essential in playing.
She is the seamstress for forevermore.
She is the one who is crafting the
garments that we will all wear.
at the homecoming, at the royal wedding,
as we celebrate Taruwah,
as we enter the garden again on Sukah.
It says,
she spreads out her hands to the
responsive who are receptive,
and she reaches out and extends her hands
to the willing and enthusiastic.
God does not tell us to preach the
gospel.
First of all, he doesn't have a gospel,
and second of all,
he doesn't want us to preach.
His interests are not for us to try
to convince those who are religious or
political.
He doesn't even want to know them.
He has no interest in them because you
cannot reason with them.
So this is saying, listen,
we're not going to be for everyone.
I can't.
She says, I can't.
You can't.
Your future wife cannot.
Be all things to all people.
That's not the purpose.
We are here to support those who are
receptive.
We're here to serve those who are willing.
We want to work with those who are
equally enthusiastic.
We care about the ,
and that is all things pertaining to being
willing.
These are remarkable people who played a
tremendous role in bringing to us what we
now know as the Sermon on the Mount
and the Olivet Discourse.
She knows her Towrah,
or she never would have been able to
share these things with her beloved son.
She says she is no longer intimidated or
afraid of this distinct honor and sign of
respect for the sake of her family and
home as snowflakes with water becoming
uniquely beautiful and distinct.
even from being perceived as icy and cold
through an occasional indiscretion,
a rash response, or unintentional mistake.
This is because her entire household and
family are clothed in crimson when fully
grown and mature.
This is a very mature conversation,
and you're going to have a zero percent
possibility of understanding any of that
until you're well on your way
to developing a productive, beneficial,
engaged, enlightened, observant,
responsive relationship with Yahowah.
So here,
the first thing that we learn from her
statement is that when you're very mature
in your relationship with God,
you recognize that there is nothing more
challenging, nothing more difficult,
really, than being put in the limelight.
When we are put in the limelight,
then we're the target of all manner of
attack.
It is the reason why Moshe lasted a
week before he crumbled.
It's the reason why after forty-eight
years
When you're put in that spotlight,
representing Yahowah,
in a world that hates God,
that much prefers the false gods that they
make in their image,
prefers their political control to God's
desire to liberate,
you have much of the world that turns
against you.
You are subject to everyone's attack.
And there is also that goes with that,
this propensity for someone who isn't
resolutely focused on the goal of Yahowah
to develop even an ego as a result
of it.
But if you know the role,
none of that happens.
You develop a very cool confidence.
You develop character and tough skin.
And in this case,
this is something that the woman that I
first met online, eighteen years ago,
when she wrote me the first letter,
who are you and why are you doing
this?
then eight years ago when she was filled
with all manner of anxieties for having
been treated poorly by so many both men
and women she would have been overwhelmed
by this distinction for god calling her
the most important of all women for god
saying that you are a blessing and a
benefit to all women for saying that you
are the most productive of mothers that
would have been intimidating that would
have been so off-putting
that she would have run away screaming.
Yep.
There she is in the background saying,
yep, she would have.
But just barely, just barely,
after spending eighteen years together
corresponding and eight years together
personally,
and all of the Towrah study along the
way and all the learning and reinforcing
it for her witnessing how I have tried
to deal with being in the spotlight.
She now has a quiet confidence.
She is not intimidated by it.
She's curious by it.
She wants to make sure that she
understands it, not afraid of it anymore.
And she knows how essential this is for
the sake of her family and home.
She also knows as a designer that her
job is to make snowflakes.
You see,
the difference between water and snowflake
is that a snowflake is far more beautiful
and unique as we must be set apart
and so different than the rest of the
world.
Like a snowflake.
And so it is a marvelous metaphor that
she has provided,
but yet she also knows that we are
not like snowflakes that are easily melted
because ultimately her entire family is
going to be bathed in red and crimson
because we live as a result of the
blood of the Passover lamb.
We will renew the final remnant of Yisra'el
in time for Dov's wedding and his return,
the great homecoming,
because of the blood of the sacrificial
bull.
This is who we become when we are
fully grown and mature.
I recognize that there will be those who
have read all of these books,
who have been with me over much of
these last twenty-four years,
that are going to understand and
appreciate all of that.
others that that'll go right over your
heads but it's there nonetheless and it's
important that we recognize what she said
that I share the meaning behind the words
you know why they would have resonated
with her intended audience and her
audience was Dowd and then through him
all of those growing in the covenant so
that we can appreciate this.
I mean,
you need to know that what she was
there intervening to resolve was horrific.
And it needed this level of intelligence.
Going on to tell us that her role
is to dress us for success,
that she is indeed the woman making the
garment of luminosity that I spoke of some
years
eighteen years ago that brought us
together.
It says she makes coverings and fabrics
for her of fine linen in addition to
woven yarn and cloth for her garments.
This is important because she is using
linen,
which is what the high priest
as dote, as he returns as king,
will be wearing when he anoints the mercy
seat of the Ark of the Covenant,
the most important wardrobe she ever made.
And she is responsible for dressing his
bride on that day.
And she will be dressed in fine linen
as well.
Might be a few starlight sparkles in the
dress as well.
And she also will weave clothing of wool
because it's reminiscent of
Of what to do to dead to resolve
his guilt and ours so that he could
open up this doorway to life.
It says her husband, Baal,
who is actually her Lord and master.
It is a very strong relationship.
And he is known and respected as Yada.
Yada is the name that I used when
I first started writing.
It's the name that appears before Yahowah's
in every book that I have written,
all thirty-five of them.
The website is yadayahowah.com.com.
The books are Yada Yahowah.
My name for the first ten of the
twenty-five years that we were in this
relationship was Yada, one who knows.
I have been Yada more than I have
been Craig over these past twenty-four
years.
And so her husband is known and respected
as Yada,
especially within the inter-sanctum of the
thoughtful and rational assembly.
We must think our way to God and
that's what I have offered,
the ability to do so.
Within,
he himself dwells and he remains
established
with the authorized elders and the
prominent leaders in the land and the
material realm.
It is not just this Em, this Amah,
this Ashar, the mother of Dowd,
the productive mother of the covenant
family,
the seamstress making the garment of
luminosity for the celebration of
of Chag Sukah,
as it arrives here in just a little
over seven years.
It's also her husband.
They do this together.
They are modeling for Dowd what he is
to model for the rest of us.
They're modeling for all who would be part
of the covenant,
precisely what God is looking for.
And I've said this so many times and
I'm going to repeat myself.
I understand that there are those who
think that if you're serving as an
example,
then your life needs to be near perfect.
And that is not true.
God does not want us to be perfect.
If we were perfect,
it would be horrendously
counterproductive.
The environment in Eden was perfect and it
forestalled Adam's growth.
You cannot succeed in a perfect
environment.
Not possible.
Because to succeed, to grow,
to be of value,
to show that you can be trusted,
to become worthy, to make a contribution,
there must be things to overcome.
There must be mistakes so that you can
learn and grow.
You must trip and fall so you can
demonstrate the will and ability to get
back up.
These are things that are essential.
It is only when we fail that we
can prove that we have the moxie to
be successful.
It is our imperfections that make us
interesting, that give us character.
And so that is what we're here to
model.
We're here to show that Yahowah was
explicit relative to the garden.
He wanted four things from Adam and Adam
delivered none of the four.
And God caused the fall of man so
that we could eventually figure out how to
resolve the fall
What Dowd ran, well, in this case Dowd,
but what Adam failed to achieve.
That's what Dowd at this moment is failing
to achieve.
That we can be observant.
We can pay attention to what's happening
around us.
Listening to God,
reading his testimony and applying it to
everything that's happening around us so
we're not oblivious
Now,
I spend as much time studying the world
around us as I do studying the word
of God,
because the word of our God has to
apply and be interjected into this real
world of ours.
You need to know the contrast between what
he's offering and what man's offering.
You need to be observant,
first and foremost.
And when God says, Shamar,
I want you to be observant,
and when he spoke of that specifically to
Adam, the first man,
with the neshamah created in the image of
God.
Shamar is equal parts closely examining
and carefully considering.
It's to see and think.
So God wants us to perceive what's
happening around us and to consider it.
And then comes the important part.
He wants us to respond.
For there to be a relationship,
we must engage.
A one-sided relationship is an oxymoron.
It's counterproductive.
The person who is doing nothing is an
entitled brat, a dependent, a negative,
a parasite.
God's not interested in that.
He wants us to be making a contribution.
He wants us to be engaged in the
family business.
He wants us to participate,
to work with him,
to make a better world,
to make a better relationship.
He wants us to be like the husband
and wife that this Em is discussing before
the very son of God.
And then after those three things,
to be observant, to be thoughtful,
to be responsive,
God needs us to be responsible.
that when we make a mistake,
that we're willing to correct it,
we're willing to learn from it.
When we stumble and fall,
that we demonstrate the will to get up
and get going again.
Those are the four things.
These are the things that the Ems Baal
as Yada taught this woman, now his wife.
and perhaps also impressed upon his
adoptive son, Dowd.
Dowd,
the man who did not know his mother
and was rejected by his father,
was appointed a mother and father that
modeled the very behaviors that God was
looking for from his son.
This goes on to say in the twenty-fourth
statement of the thirty-first and final
Mashal,
linen garments which envelop wrap and
cover.
She is made, she values,
and she is offering as a quid pro
quo,
surrendering and transferring possession
of these highly treasured garments.
The celebratory slashes in preparation for
the chag feast, the chagowr,
she offers as a gift.
To the Canaanite,
this merchant salesman of hers,
her husband.
Yes, God wants his family leaders,
his exemplars.
He wants them dressed in linen.
They will be wearing lay-aware clothes.
They will be positioned to celebrate the
chag, the chag Matsah and chag Sukah,
the spring and fall feasts,
dressed for success,
dressed in the very garment of luminosity
that I spoke of, um, twenty years ago.
They're her gift.
And they are offered by way of the
merchant salesman of her husband that he
now can dole out to every covenant member
and he's not going to give them away
free.
Nope.
He's not going to charge money for them,
but he'll elicit a price because he knows
that if we don't invest in something,
if we don't contribute to it,
we don't value it.
So I can assure you this,
that she is offering them through her,
Cain and I,
merchant salesman of a husband for these
child feasts,
because he knows that they can't be given
away,
that they must be earned to be
appreciated.
And so you say,
what is he gonna charge for them?
I just told you, it's not money.
He won't have any use for that.
And he's never charged for his books.
You can go to yadayah.com.
Every single book in its entirety is free.
Yadayah.com.
Go there.
Check it out.
Every book is free.
There's not even a donate button on the
site.
How's that?
But I also know that those who do
not contribute for what they are given
don't appreciate it.
And so I will elicit a contribution.
And it will be very similar to the
contribution that Yahowah has sought.
Cause I have found that if you go
to where his words lead,
if you embody what he is offering and
expects in return, you can't be wrong.
So I know the fair price.
You want one of these garments?
Be observant, be thoughtful,
be responsive and be responsible.
Oz, of course, by Ba'oz.
Strength and fortitude, dignity,
and a most beautiful appearance,
a noble status and character.
Ah, they adorn her.
She will be the most beautiful of all
of the women.
And so she is amused and entertained,
smiling and laughing during the day to
come,
at long last and throughout the future.
She is the exemplar.
She's the most beautiful.
Woman, inside and out,
the most noble of character,
the most beautiful of appearance,
the most dignified.
It amuses her, entertains her.
She's going to smile and laugh because she
knows that there is a benefit for all
when she models these things.
She opens her mouth with wisdom.
Chokmah.
intelligently revealing the capacity to
understand.
You see, it's brains and beauty.
She's as bright as she is beautiful.
She has chokmah.
And a loyal love and affection,
showing great favoritism and devotion,
Chesed, for the Towrah,
the guidance and teaching,
the instructions and directions of Yahowah.
They are what's on her tongue.
Leah, given the option, wouldn't sleep.
She would do Towrah twenty-four-seven.
She devours it.
She loves it.
She lives in its pages.
And she recognizes something that we've
all come to embrace.
The prophets are Towrah.
The Mizmowr are Towrah.
Every inspired word of our God,
as he has communicated through men and
women of his choice,
contain his Towrah teaching and guidance.
So now as she seeks,
how am I to fulfill this role to
the utmost of our collective
collaboration?
She turns to the Towrah for guidance and
teaching.
Just as I want to know how to
do this job, I turn to my pal,
Yasha'yah.
He's written the textbook on the subject.
And now we hear that this is the
most complete of all women.
She's wise, she's beautiful,
and she's loving.
Wise, beautiful, and loving.
And as a result,
or perhaps as the cause, perhaps both.
The Towrah is always on her tongue.
Sweet is honey.
She keeps watch, always on the lookout,
and hopeful expectation for improved
results.
And the ways,
the walk and the affairs of her family
and home.
She does not consume or feed upon the
bread of conflict of those who lack
discipline or who are immoral,
the idle or the lazy.
without the initiative to make a
contribution.
Boy, isn't this true?
Maya's always on the lookout.
She's hopeful that she will continue to
encounter those who exceed expectations,
who are willing to engage,
who bring aptitude and attitude to the
family,
who are self-motivated and know that when
we make a contribution,
on behalf of Yahowah,
his son and the Towrah,
the covenant family that is appreciated by
our God and that these contributions never
go unrewarded.
And so she is completely devoted to the
affairs of her family,
that's the covenant family.
And as a result,
she doesn't feed upon the bread of
conflict.
And she doesn't spend any time with those
who lack discipline, who are immoral.
If you're lazy and idle,
you're not gonna find Leah responsive.
You need to take the initiative,
make a contribution.
Her children will rise up,
they will take a stand.
And as a result of all of this,
they're going to call her Ashar.
going to call her a beneficial blessing
for having revealed the way to capitalize
on this relationship.
They will call her Ashar,
and they're going to call her husband,
Ba'al, a lord and master too.
He reflects her bright and clear light and
consistently praises her extolling her
virtues.
Now we've made very clear that Yahowah does
not want to be called a Lord because
he prefers being known as our father.
And it is a fatherly role that I'm
being asked to play beside the Amah
mother, this Ashar,
for the covenant family and for those who
are being invited to return to Eden and
to model the four responses that Yahowah
was looking for.
And in that regard,
there is an honorarium.
And this title is one that was used
throughout time to say essentially, yes,
sir.
Back in my day,
when you were speaking to someone who was
older and who had achieved something in
their life that was sharing insights with
you and being generous with you,
you would show them the respect of saying,
yes, sir.
And that's sort of what this means.
But it also means that God knows that
we humans, even in a perfect environment,
which the Garden of Eden is going to
provide when the whole earth is
transformed to those conditions,
we still need leadership.
Dowd's going to be our king.
He's going to be the sovereign of
forevermore.
But even Dowd needs leadership.
Uh, and, um,
so do all of those who will be
part of this covenant family.
And so this is to say that, oh,
this person is going to be such that
just as Leah is perceived as the
beneficial one who offers the blessings of
the covenant,
that her husband's going to be known as
bail, the Lord and master.
Many women have acted,
engaged and performed aptly and ably,
demonstrating the power of their
convictions.
This is a powerful thing for Dowd to
say because he had never experienced a
woman
who performed ably or aptly,
never had a relationship with a woman who
had the power of her convictions,
never met a noble woman,
capable and competent.
If he had,
he disregarded them and he never looked
more than skin deep.
But this woman got his attention.
This woman was far more than just
physically beautiful.
She was brilliant and she had character
and she had conviction and she was
competent.
And so he said of her in an
inspired text from Yahowah,
you yourself surpass and rise,
ascending above and are exalted above them
all.
Mashal, thirty-one, twenty-nine.
Therefore,
the disingenuous in the vein of compassion
and favoritism that seek popular appeal,
they are meaningless, they are futile.
Because it's all about a woman who is
brilliant and beautiful,
who reveres and respects Yahowah.
It is she who is to be independently
admired and celebrated.
without compulsion,
all for radiating her beautiful,
brilliant, and clear light.
And as the fruit of her hands,
those of you who are harvested into the
covenant family,
you all have decided to be entrusted to
her as a gift.
And you should now choose to be productive
for her.
And so,
Her contributions and accomplishments will
exclaim that she is praiseworthy by
acknowledging her brilliant radiance and
clear light.
Also,
within that inter-sanctum of the
thoughtful assembly of those who think
rationally.
The conclusion of the final word picture.
Now I am thankful that Yahowah waited to
the very end to present his gift,
enabling us to unwrap her with loving
care.
It is true love,
the love of a son,
the support of a husband,
the appreciation
of our God and the contributions that we
can make to his family.
That is what we are commemorating with the
final word picture.
I thank you for listening.